What Happens When a Client Enters WWW.GGOGLE.COM in a Browser:  
1. THE DNS LOOK UP  
The browser looks up the IP address matching the domain name, google.com, in the Domain Naming System(DNS).  
The host file in sometimes /etc/hosts of the Operating System(OS) is checked first for an IP address matching   
the request. If a record matches the request, an IP address is retrieved and a request for a corresponding webpage  
is sent. If no matching record is found, the Root Name Server(.com) is queried for a matching request and will  
respond with the location of the Top Level Domain(TLD) servers.  
The TLD then matches then the request with the help of the help of Authoritative Name Servers.  
After a complete lookup and a matching record is found,  
the record is cached in the hosts file for a future request and a for a webpage is sent to  
the severs hosting the corresponding website(www.google.com)  
When a macthing record isn't found an error, 404 error is displayed on the browser, Not Found.

2. THE TCP/IP  
How is the request sent to the web servers you may ask?  
A protocol, an internet protocol(IP) or atimes referred to as a Transmission Communication Porotocol(TCP).  
A protocol basically refers to means of doing something, a rule on how to do something.  
There are various protocols(http, https, ssh, scp..), means, of sending a request to the web server, herein identified by the IP address maching the request.  
Web requests are handled by http for unsecured requests and https for secured requests.
Therefore a HyperText Protocol(HTTP) request, requesting for a web page is established and sent to the web server.

3. FIREWALL.  
Just like most premises, web servers are guarded from unauthorized access, this is achieved by a firewall.  
Traffic(requests) is filtered.  
When the request for a www.google.com(by now it's in form f an IP address) request is sent to a web server, the request first passes through  
a firewall, the firewall dictates which requests get to the web server and which requests are denied access, depending  
on the firewall configurations, the request is checked for the destination port.  
A HTTP is usually mapped on port 80 on a service, web server.
If the web server is configured to listen to port 80 and the port number matches those listed to access the web server,  
the request is forwared to the web server.

4. THE LOAD BALANCER.  
In most cases, there are usually more than one web servers handling requests for a particular website. In such scenarios,  
web servers sit behind a load balancer(i.e HAproxy..). The load balancer depending on the algorithm(instructions) set on it,  
available servers, online and running servers, busy and idle servers, determines which web server handles a particular request.  
The load balancer then forwards the request to the appropriate server for handling.  

5. THE WEB SERVER.  

